recipes/bread/brown-butter-cornbread.md, before:

---
title: Brown Butter Cornbread
source: https://www.seriouseats.com/moist-and-tender-brown-butter-cornbread-recipe
servings: 8
tags: bread, tested
lang: en
---

# Brown Butter Cornbread

## Ingredients

- `7 tbsp` unsalted butter, plus more for serving
- `1 cup (about 140 g)` fine yellow cornmeal
- `1 cup (about 140 g)` all-purpose flour
- `4 tbsp` sugar
- `1 tsp` kosher salt
- `2 tsp` baking powder
- `0.25 tsp` baking soda
- `2` eggs
- `170 g (about 180 ml)` sour cream
- `115 g (about 120 ml)` cultured buttermilk
- Honey, for serving

## Instructions

1. Adjust oven rack to center position and preheat oven to 220°C. Place butter in a 10-inch cast iron skillet. Transfer skillet to oven and heat until butter is melted and well browned, 10 to 20 minutes (you can measure your wet and dry ingredients while waiting). Pour browned butter into a heatproof cup or bowl, leaving about 1 tablespoon remaining in skillet.
1. Combine cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in a large bowl. Add eggs, sour cream, and buttermilk to a second bowl and whisk together. Whisking constantly, slowly drizzle in reserved browned butter. Stir wet ingredients into dry ingredients until just combined.
1. Swirl the hot skillet to coat all surfaces with melted butter. Spoon batter into skillet, smooth top lightly, then return to oven. Bake until light golden brown on top and a wooden skewer inserted into cornbread comes out with no crumbs, 20 to 25 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes, then serve with extra butter and honey at the table. Leftover cornbread can be stored in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.

**Note:** This recipe is for 10" skillet but for 12" skillet you can multiply the ingredients with 1.5x.

Commit message:

update brown butter cornbread recipe with notes

recipes/bread/brown-butter-cornbread.md, after:

---
title: Brown Butter Cornbread
source: https://www.seriouseats.com/moist-and-tender-brown-butter-cornbread-recipe
servings: 8
tags: bread, tested
lang: en
---

# Brown Butter Cornbread

## Ingredients

- `7 tbsp` unsalted butter, plus more for serving
- `1 cup (about 140 g)` fine yellow cornmeal
- `1 cup (about 140 g)` all-purpose flour
- `4 tbsp` sugar
- `1 tsp` kosher salt
- `2 tsp` baking powder
- `0.25 tsp` baking soda
- `2` eggs
- `170 g (about 180 ml)` sour cream
- `115 g (about 120 ml)` cultured buttermilk
- honey, for serving

## Instructions

1. Adjust oven rack to center position and preheat oven to 220°C. Place butter in a 10-inch cast iron skillet. Transfer skillet to oven and heat until butter is melted and well browned, 10 to 20 minutes (you can measure your wet and dry ingredients while waiting). Pour browned butter into a heatproof cup or bowl, leaving about 1 tablespoon remaining in skillet.
1. Combine cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in a large bowl. Add eggs, sour cream, and buttermilk to a second bowl and whisk together. Whisking constantly, slowly drizzle in reserved browned butter. Stir wet ingredients into dry ingredients until just combined.
1. Swirl the hot skillet to coat all surfaces with melted butter. Spoon batter into skillet, smooth top lightly, then return to oven. Bake until light golden brown on top and a wooden skewer inserted into cornbread comes out with no crumbs, 20 to 25 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes, then serve with extra butter and honey at the table. Leftover cornbread can be stored in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.

### Notes

- This recipe is for 10" skillet. For 12" skillet you can multiply the ingredients by 1.5x.
- The end result is quite sweet when fresh. You can reduce the sugar to e.g. `1-2 tbsp`.
